(swooshing music)
All right now that we've got the items
being removed from the cart, we need to now update the UI.
Now there's kind of like a couple options
we could have here.
We could pass a re fetch queries to this and say,
all right, when you delete the item,
make sure you go and re fetch all of the users cart
and we can re render it
but a little bit faster than that.
So we don't need to make a second trip to the server
is simply just a pop that item out of the cache
or to evict it from cache.
So what we do is you pass it an update function.
And I usually like to put my functions up here called,
I like to put them outside update
because the things that you need
are the cache and the payload
that get passed in when that function is running.
So it's not necessary to be inside of the component itself.
So when somebody removes an item from the cache
and it comes back, it's going to run the update
and it's gonna give us both access
to the entire Apollo cache as well as the information
that came back from the API
which in our case is just gonna be ID.
So it's actually a really simple,
we just run cache.evict,
and then we need to identify the item.
Normally you could just say like cart, item, six,
whatever, whatever, whatever.
And that's what it's using to evict the item.
But it's better to use the cache to identify API
because it will generate these IDs for you.
So we can say cache.identify,
and then you pass it the payload.data.delete cart item.
So that is this thing that's gonna be passed back.
It's both going to have an ID
as well as every response will have
an underscore underscore type name passed along with it.
It's not something you have to request explicitly
from the API, it will just give it to you.
So with that in place now,
I believe we should be able to click it.
And when that comes back from the API
it then remove the item from our list.
There is one more step that you could take
to make that even faster.
And that's a concept of an optimistic response.
And an optimistic response will say,
"Okay, I pretty sure I know what's gonna come back
"from the server, so what I'm gonna do is immediately
"give you sort of a fake response
"that will match what the server will give me."
And then if the server comes back
with something different we can roll that back,
but it looks like this optimistic response.
And right now I'm not sure why,
but this is not working in correlation with the evict
and I'll show you what the problem is.
And if I find a solution to this,
I'll be sure to tack it on to this video,
but basically the optimistic responses, what comes back,
well, we are expecting it to return
a delete cart item object.
And on that we are expecting a underscore underscore
type name to be a cart item.
And we are expecting the ID of the item to be,
the ID of the cart item that's passed in right here.
So we can just put that there.
And what will happen is this updater function
will run immediately once you press that button
with the optimistic response
and then it will run a second time
when it actually comes back from the API.
And if those values are any different, it will roll it back.
But in our case, it will just run it twice.
And the second time it's, there's no,
there will be no item of that ID.
So it will, it'll just, it would just ignore it.
So that is how it's supposed to work.
It's not working right now.
Watch (beep) for some reason,
it's getting totally unrelated,
data to all products is not defined.
And I did dig into this and for a split second data
is undefined and those loading and error states are not,
don't have any values in them.
I did look a little bit deeper and to my network tab.
When this happens, and you can add an item to your cart.
You can look at your car and you can delete it.
And when you delete an item
and all of the items that are JSON in here,
and if I went and fixed that,
like I checked if data was undefined or whatever,
it looks like it's re fetching
every single query on the page.
So all the products, all the pagination,
the user and everything, and I'm not sure why it would
because the whole point of updater function
is to not have to re fetch the query.
So unfortunately, I will comment this out for now
just because there's an issue with it.
And I will tack onto this video if I do find a solution.
And if you wanna dig into it as well,
by all means, please, please shoot me an email.
But in our case that cache out evict
is a pretty fast turnaround.
It only takes a couple of milliseconds
from the server and back
because we are just sending very small payloads
of a couple pieces of texts with the ID.
That's it for this one, let's catch in the next one.